So, guys, now we have understood the concept of BRG, and as we are getting some calls now, we are
in a position that we can now try out the most basic implementation of Malot function.
So now we know that we use Mallock or Kalac like functions to allocate dynamic memory to our program
from the hip region.
Right.
So Mallock or Kalac are actually not our system calls, but they are functions provided by standard
celebrity.
Now, here, one point to note here is that you should know the difference between system call and a
normal function.
It's OK if you know it.
It's absolutely OK if you do not know it.
We are going to have a discussion on system calls and how do they differ from normal functions later
in discourse.
So do not worry.
So Madlock or Kellock like functions are actually wrapper over as Bierko system call.
Right?
So Malakai internally invoke Esbati to claim the memory from the Heap segment and the return value of
Mallock or Kalac functions is actually the address of break pointer.
Right.
So it does this breakpoint point value which is written by the Mallock or kellock like functions.
So let us now discuss a very simple implementation of mallock, which you could think of.
So as I said, mallock is a rapper over as Bierko system called.
So the most basic implementation of mallock is something like this.
Right.
So you can see that, first of all, we cash the value of olbrycht pointer and the pointer will be right.
And using second call to sparkies system, can we actually expand the heap region by the amount of bytes
which is parsed as an argument?
Right.
So in other words, we have used as Bierko system called to allocate dynamic memory from the hip region
to the process.
And finally, we simply return the old breakpoint of value, which we cashed in our whether it will
be.
So you can see that this is the most basic implementation of mallock, which you could think of using
as we are a system called.
So guys here you can see as a demonstration here is a short program which demonstrate the use of Esbati
system call, we have just discussed the discussion of our own mallock function.
So here you can see that we have implemented our own malac function and because our own mallock function
do not conflict with the standard Madlock function.
Therefore, I have renamed armi log function as XML log right.
And the corresponding free function as X free.
So here you can see that it is a very simple demonstration in this program.
I'm simply requesting 20 bytes of memory.
Now you already know the implementation of our XML log function that it simply raises the pointer from
lower address towards higher address by amount, equal to 20 bytes.
So our XML log function simply adjusts the pointer to point to the address in the memory segment, which
is 20 bytes higher than its previous position in the second line.
We are simply copying some data in this case.
Hello in the memory location, which is written by an XML log function.
Right.
And then we are verifying by simply printing our data and then we are freeing the memory.
Now let us discuss the implementation of X Free so you can see that the implementation of our free function
is very simple.
The x ray function simply does exactly opposite to the x mallock function by using Esbati system called
other X free function simply lowers down the break pointer from its current position to point to a lower
address in the memory segment.
So in the SB aka system call, if you pass the negative argument, it means that you are lowering the
brake pointer from higher address to lower address in the heat memory segment.
So if you simply compile this program and run, it will simply walk.
And see it just fine.
So from this example, I wanted to illustrate that claiming a memory from Heat Memory segment is just
a matter of calling as Biraki system call and simply freeing the memory by the process is just a matter
of calling as Bayaka system call with negative argument.
In other words, if you raise the breakpoint or value from lower Atlus to higher address, it means
that you are expanding your heat memory segment.
In other words, your process is claiming more memory from its what will address the space.
So this is how he mamady segment, expands and shrinks, using as Bierko system called with positive
and negative arguments.
But the main deviation that you can notice here is that you have to call your X free function with the
number of bytes that you want to free.
But in reality, when you free the memory using standard free function, you pass the address of the
block of memory, which you want to free.
Right, remembering the number of bytes of each block is not feasible.
This free simply freeze the topmost block of memory, which is present in the memory segment, because
it lowers down the brake pointer from its current position to the next lower address, this x3 do not
free the block of memory from the Heap segment, which is somewhere in the middle of the Heap memory
segment.
Right, for example, this X free cannot free this block of memory, which is often bitts, so as we
progress into this section, we will discuss the actual implementation of log function and step by step,
we will dive deep into how actual my log function and actual free function works.
In fact, towards the end of this section of the course, you will have a good project which demands
you to implement your own mallock and free function, whose complexity and functionality would be as
close as possible to the standard Moluccan free function.
So stay tuned and let us discuss in detail the management of memory segment by the operating system.